Workrave NEWS -- history of user-visible changes.  13 Jan 2013
Copyright (C) 2001-2013 Rob Caelers, Raymond Penners, Ray Satiro
See the end for copying conditions.

Please report Workrave bug reports. Visit our bug tracker located at:
http://www.workrave.org

* Workrave 1.10

** Split "show 'postpone' and 'skip'" checkbox into two checkboxes. (Egbert Teeselink)

** Add the capability to delete all stored statistics (Ray Satiro)

** Workrave now supports DBus on window.
   DBus can be used to control Workrave by an external program.

** Workrave now offers a Gnome 3 applet. Applets for both Gnome 3
   classic and the Gnome shell are available.

** Workrave now offers an application indicator (applet) in Unity.

** On Windows, Workrave does not stay in the 'suspended' mode after
   resuming from hibernate/sleep.

** On Unix, Workrave adds a new activity monitoring method that can be
   used instead of the XRECORD based monitoring. XRECORD monitoring
   appear be causing X crashes for some people
   (See http://issues.workrave.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1066)

** Infrastructure update. Workrave now supports:
   - Gtk3/Gtkmm3 (only on Gnome 3; Gtk2/Gtkmm2 is still used on Gnome 2)
   - Configuration in GSettings (instead of GConf)
   - GIO based DBus (instead of freedesktop.org DBus)
   
** Obsolete KDE3 support has been droppped.

** Translation updates:
   - Mykola Rykov translated Workrave into Ukrainian.
   - Ivan Barkovic translated Workave into Croatian.
   - Moein Gh translated Workave into Persian.
   - Jyri-Petteri Paloposki translated Workrave into Finnish
   - Goran Maričić translated Workrave into Serbian.
   - Igor Zinovik updated the Russian translation.
   - Gabor Kelemen updated the Hungarian translation.
   - Alick Zhao updated the Chinese translation.
   - Andrey Bondrov updated the Russian translation.
   - Paweł Szerszon updated the Polish translation.

** Plus many small fixes and improvements (Ray Satiro, Rob Caelers)

* Workrave 1.9.4

** The automatic start of a restbreak when the screen is locked is now
   configurable.

** Fixed crash when the 'mute all audio during breaks' option is enabled.

** The skip and postpone button now have keyboard shortcuts (Alt-S
   and Alt-P in the English version).

** Fixed issue where Workrave remains suspended after
   hibernate/standby on Window 7.

** Fixed issue where the reading mode was reset after changing settings.

** On Windows, Workrave shows a reminder balloon when Workrave starts up
   in suspended or quiet mode.

** The (un)installer now automatically shuts down Workrave before
   (un)installation.

** It is no longer possible to disable both the notification icon and
   the main window.

* Workrave 1.9.3

** Seanán Ó Coistín translated Workrave into Irish.

** 김재용 translated Workrave into Korean.

** Workrave now stops all timers when the screen is locked. When the
   screen in unlocked, a natural restbreak is started.

** Audio muting improvements:
   - Audio is now muted after the start break sound is played.
   - Audio is now unmuted when the user becomes active after the break
     has ended instead of immediately after the break ended.

** By default, the RECORD extention is now mandatory on X windows systems.

** Bug fixes:

*** Fixed crash on Windows systems without audio installed.

*** Fixed translucency of Deskband applet on Windows 7/Vista.

*** Fixed Reading mode menu entry in Windows and Gnome applet.

*** Networking now supports IPV6 addresses.

*** Activity monitor should now filter out mouse jitter.

*** Fixed monitoring of (Wacom) tablets.

* Workrave 1.9.2

** Reading mode
  The activity insensitive breaks have been replaced by a 'reading
  mode'. This mode can easily be activated from the menu.

** Workrave can now mute all audio during breaks.

** Workrave now properly remembers the Window hide/show notification
   icon settings.

** The Workrave applet is functional again on Windows 7

** Updated tranlations:
   - Brazilian Portuguese
   - Catalan
   - Hungarian
   - Hebrew
   - Polish

** Many bug fixes.

* Workrave 1.9.1

** Updated translations

*** new Romanian translation (Alexandru Szasz)

*** new Estonian translation (Marko Väljaots)

*** Removed extra "2" character in the Hungarian translation (Márton Németh)

*** Update of Hungarian translation

*** Update of Swedish translation 

** Many bug fixes. Including:

*** Fix saving the username in the networking preferences (Francois Marier)

*** Fix KDE compilation errors (Stanislav Brabec)

*** Fixed issue where autostart settings on Windows was not stored

*** Fixed crashes when trying to add a host in networking preferences

*** User activity is now recognized on Xorg 1.6.0

*** Fixed color in dark UI themes on Gnome.

*** Workrave no longer shows two icons on GNOME notification panel 

*** Fixed tray icon tranparency

*** Fixed issue on Vista where the break window is not on top of other
    windows (Ray Satiro)

*** Improved volume control on Windows

* Workrave 1.9.0

** Many small bugfixes

** Fixed transparency of tray icon on Linux.

** New alternate activity moniting for Windows (Ray Satiro)

** Additional tooltips (Ray Satiro)

** Improved 64 bit support (Ray Satiro)

** Improved Vista support (Ray Satiro)

** Exercises are now randomized

** On Windows, the language can now be selected in the preferences

** The option 'Start Workrave when windows starts' has been added to
   the preferences

** Extended DBUS support on Unix

** Initial OSX port

** Networking supports can now be enabled without accepting incoming
   connections from other Workraves (Francois Marier)

** Sounds

*** A sound has been added that indicates a next step in the exercise.

*** The volume can now be configured

*** All sounds can now be configured

*** A new sound theme has been added (Ruairi Fullam)

* Workrave 1.8.5

** Lots of changes by Ray Satiro.

** Task manager is never blocked by Workrave (Ray Satiro)
   
** Workaround for focus loss on Vista (Ray Satiro)
   
** Vanja Cvelbar translated Workrave into Slovenian.

** Many bug fixes, the most visible ones:

*** Fixed breaks that have 'suspend timer when inactive' disabled (Ray Satiro)

*** Improved Windows responsiveness under high load.
    (by reverting a 1.8.4 change)

*** Mode menu fixed.

*** Gnome applet no longer 'hangs'.

*** Gnome applet no longer crashes Workrave.

*** Fixed crashes during startup on Windows.

*** Fixed 'end-of-microbreak' sound.

*** Fixed bug in multi-head support where Workrave showed
    multiple windows on a single screen.

*** Fixed locking on Gnome with xscreensaver installed (Philipp Kern)

* Workrave 1.8.4

** Eraldo Girardi translated Workrave into Italian.

** Better support for vertical applets on Unix.

** Tao WEI translated Workrave into simplified Chinese.

** Peter Tuharsky translated Workrave into Slovak.

** Prokopis Prokopidis translated Workrave into Greek.

** The status window used to appear empty, only to be resized and
   filled with the timers shortly thereafter. Now it appears right
   away in the proper size.

** The operation mode (normal/quiet/suspended) now persists across
   Workrave sessions.

** Enver Altin translated Workrave into Turkish.

** Masanobu Yokota translated Workrave into Japanese.

** Ivan Dimov translated Workrave into Bulgarian.

** ORY Mate translated Workrave into Hungarian.

** Fixed KDE sound events (Phuah Yee Keat)

** Fixed Gnome sound events

** Fixed negative mouse usage when date is changed.

** Fixed text color on Gnome themes with dark backgrounds (i.e. high
   contrast inverse)

** Gnome applets now support transparency.

** The 'datadir' configuration option in workrave.ini can now be a
   relative path:
     [general]
     datadir=.\\Data

   This will store all Workrave data in the 'Data' directory below the
   Workrave root directory. 
   (Note the double backslash)

** Daily limit now properly resets when hibernated.

* Workrave 1.8.3

** Daniel Nylander translated Workrave into Swedish.

** Jordi Mallach translated Workrave into Catalan.

** Support for storing configuration in a .ini file
   This feature can be enabled by creating an empty 'workrave.ini'
   file in '~/.workrave' (on Unix) or in 'c:\Program files\Workrave\etc'
   (on Window, assuming Workrave is installed in this directory)
   
** Support for configuring the data storage directory.
   Add the following two lines to your workrave.ini
     [general]
     datadir=C:\\Workrave\\Data
   This feature can be used to run Workrave from an USB memory stick.
   Note: On Windows, you have to use double backslashes like in the
   example above!
   
** Support for Gnome screen saver added (Matt Zimmerman).

** Workrave no longer consumes 100% CPU is if a break is started while
   the screen is locked.

** The applet popup menu is now accessible when all timers hidden.

** Fix czech translation (Jiri Palecek).

** Fixed a bug that could cause breaks to stop running when 'suspend
   timer while inactive' was disabled.

* Workrave 1.8.2

** Fixed a crash when a third party gtk runtime is used.

** Fixed bug that caused status windows to be disabled when the
   microbreak timer was hidden.

** Fixed translations.

** Better hibernate/standby support on Unix.

** System tray menu on Windows now disappears when focus is lost.

* Workrave 1.8.1

** Fixed a crash when blocking mode is set to 'none'

* Workrave 1.8.0

** Jon Otegi translated Workrave into Basque.

** Artūras Šlajus translated Workrave into Lithuanian.

** Morten Lunde translated Workrave into Norwegian.

** Juraj Kubelka translated Workrave into Czech.

** Haggai Eran translated Workrave into Hebrew.

** Workrave now gives additional feedback when becoming active
during a break by flashing the break window border.

** Workrave now uses the system tray icon to visualize the current
mode (normal, suspended or quiet).

** Added "Restbreak now" button to microbreak window.

** KDE improvements. Workrave now has a native KDE applet and
supports KDE sound events.

** Decent tooltips for Workrave system tray icon.

** Miscellaneous distribution improvements.


* Workrave 1.6.2

** Added a Brazilian Portuguese translation, thanks to Claudio
Ferreira Filho!

** Workrave now respects the "gtk-button-images" property.

** Upgraded GTK runtime to version 2.4, fixing some minor UI quirks.

** Fixed some high-profile bugs, especially activity monitoring
problems when running X.


* Workrave 1.6.1

** A bug was introduced in version 1.6.0 which could cause the status
window to disappear. Version 1.6.1 is only a minor bug fix release
that addresses this problem.


* Workrave 1.6.0

** Workrave has been translated into Chinese thanks to Rex Tsai, into
Russian thanks to Sergey Kirkinsky, and into French thanks to Thomas Basset
and Benjamin Siband.

** The explanation of an exercise is now scrollable, if it does not
fit onscreen.

** The Windows version now includes a taskbar applet version of the
status window. After installation of Workrave, right click your
taskbar and select "Workrave" from the list of toolbars.

** Timers can be configured to ignore activity.

** Bloat removal: removed the "Resets at" option from the daily limit
panel.

** Exercises are no longer read at program startup, and are released
from memory when not needed anymore.

** Terminology: we now use the term "micro-break" instead of "micro-pause".

** When block mode "Block all" is used, we display the break window on
top of your current desktop background (wallpaper), instead of on a
semi-transparent screen snapshot. 

** Fixed screen locking on X11: previously only xlock was detected and
used without passing a display parameter. Now, the proper screen
lock command is invoked on the right display. For example, if KDE is
detected its kdesktop_lock is executed.

** High-profile bug fixes (Windows): activity monitoring when working
in Exceed has been restored, and ZoneLab interaction problems
(hangups) have been corrected.


* Workrave 1.4.1

** Replaced the "Block input" setting (which was available per break)
by a global "Block mode" setting, located in the GUI preferences. The
available block modes are "None" (NEW: no input is blocked and break
windows have a title bar and can be dragged), "Block input" (blocks
input, break windows are fixed), "Block all" (NEW: blocks input and
display).

** The Windows installer now offers the option to install Workrave
using the standalone Dropline GTK+ runtime. For more information, see
http://www.dropline.net/gtk/.

** Removed the "Force break after maximum preludes" option. It is now
on by default.

** Some strings in the German translation were too long, fixed.

** Added multihead support for Windows.

** Improved suspend (to ram) support. Workrave now assumes that you
are idle while suspended instead of assuming that no time passes.

** Improved multihead support. The status window is now automatically
relocated when the monitor on which it is displayed is removed. It
moved back to its original location when the monitor returns.

** Exercises navigation can now be used without causing Workrave to
remove the break window and show the warning windows again.

** If supported by your system, the daily limit window includes a
"Shut down" button.

** There now is a "Lock" button on the rest break, so that you can
safely lock your display while you are taking breaks. If the daily
limit window does not include the "Shut down" button, it includes the
"Lock" button instead.


* Workrave 1.4.0

** Added exercises.

** Workrave has been translated to Polish, Danish and Spanish. Many
thanks to Mikolaj Machowski, Christian Vejlbo, and Pablo Rodriguez!

** Multihead support for X11. Workrave now shows break windows on
all monitors.

** Workrave can now cope with changes in system time and OS features
like suspend-to-ram.

** Previously, the end time that showed up in the stats dialog equaled
the time at which the clock reset (typically equal to the start of the
next working day).  This lead to weird from/to times, as in: "From
8:46 to 9:10". Fixed.

** Added an icon to the skip/postpone buttons on break windows.

** Many laptop pointer devices "drift" over time. This used to cause
Workrave to detect activity when there was in fact none.  Fixed,
thanks to Chung-chieh Shan.

** On Windows, Workrave now notices when Explorer crashes and will try
to reinsert the tray icon in the new Explorer taskbar that is created
when Explorer restarts.

** Rewrote the user input blocking mechanism on Windows. You should no
longer experience visual quirks (like flashing windows or unexpectedly
focusing random windows) during breaks.

** On Linux, Workrave now notices when the gnome-panel crashes and
will reinsert the applet in the new panel.

** The content of the status window can now be configured.

** Breaks can now be disabled.


* Workrave 1.2.2

** If you stopped working during a prelude just before it was about to
disappear, the prelude would still go away because Workrave assumed
you wanted to continue working. This behaviour has been changed now:
if there is no activity when the count-down has reached zero, Workrave
waits a couple of seconds to see if you are really idle. If that is
the case, a break window appears. If not, you can continue working.

** Redesigned the preferences panel. It used to have nested tabs,
these have been replaced with an icon shortcut bar.

** The break windows have been given a title.

** The Window version now included GTK-Wimp. This makes the visual
appearance of Workrave blend much better into the Windows desktop
environment (http://gtk-wimp.sourceforge.net).

** Beter support for Gnome session management. Workrave is now
properly restarted by the gnome session manager.

** The applet can now be configured to show only the Workrave sheep.
Clicking on the sheep will toggle the visibility of the main window.


* Workrave 1.2.1

** Some errors in the build process have been fixed. Only a new source
tarball is released, as this does not effect binary releases.


* Workrave 1.2.0

** Johannes Rohr provided a german translation, thanks!

** Added applet support. Workrave now supports both a native Gnome
applet, as well as a system tray applet that *should* also work on
KDE.

** Added statistics. Workrave shows break statistics and daily usage.
More statistics will be added later.

** A leaflet promoting Workrave is now available.  Please spread it as
far as possible.  For example, distribute several copies at the
office.  (http://workrave.sourceforge.net/leaflet/)

** Last but absolutely not least: increased sheep size in the about
window. :)


* Workrave 1.0.0

** Removed the monitoring preferences. Good defaults is all you want
here, and it was far too difficult to try and explain these settings
to ordinary users.

** Added the daily limit break window.

** Added internationalisation support. Currently, only a Dutch translation is
provided. We are still looking for volunteers to translate Workrave
into other languages.

** The "Collective" has been renamed to "Network", which is far more
meaningful to non-geek users.

** A network log window has been added. This window shows informational
messages about the communication between different Workrave instances. 


* Workrave 0.3.0

** Added experimental(!) distribution support, dubbed "The
Collective". What this means is that you can now create a network of
Workrave instances running on several computers. All instances that
are part of "the collective" share the same timer information, meaning
that if one computer informs you to take a break, it is futile to flee
to another computer as it will also tell you to take a break.

** Added sound support. You can configure the samples that are played
through the standard sound control panel provided by Gnome and
Windows. For office PCs that do not have a sound card, you can choose
to play sounds through the internal PC speaker.

** The window prompting you to brake now moves earlier to the top of
the screen so that it does not interfere too much. Furthermore, the
window has a new and improved "evasive manouvers" algorithm.


* Workrave 0.2.0

** Activity during a persisted break is no longer ignored. Instead,
the timer is stopped whenefer the user is active.

** Microsoft Windows specific changes

*** Added taskbar tray support. When the main window is closed, the
program remains active in the tray. In the user interface preferences,
you can select to hide the program when started.

*** The main window is now opened at the position where it was during
the last program exit.

* Workrave 0.1.0

** First public release. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright information:

Copyright (C) 2001-2010 Rob Caelers & Raymond Penners

   Permission is granted to anyone to make or distribute verbatim copies
   of this document as received, in any medium, provided that the
   copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved,
   thus giving the recipient permission to redistribute in turn.

   Permission is granted to distribute modified versions
   of this document, or of portions of it,
   under the above conditions, provided also that they
   carry prominent notices stating who last changed them.

Local variables:
mode: outline
paragraph-separate: "[ 	]*$"
end:
